# Raw assembly

### Contig-level assembly 

The first step involves the contig-level assembly. A contig is defined as a contiguous sequence generated by determining a non-redundant path through an ordered set of sequences. While a contig should theoretically contain no gaps, it is important to note that in practice, the terms 'contig' and 'scaffold' are often used interchangeably.

#### Assembling reads

[*Wtdbg2*](https://github.com/ruanjue/wtdbg2) was employed as the assembler; by leveraging long reads, it aims to produce a genome assembly that is as continuous as possible. 

```bash
#[assembly]
wtdbg2 -x rs -g 227054799 -t 8 -i SRR11672506.fastq.gz -fo Anoste_raw
```

#### Final consensus in fasta format

The process continued with the generation of the final consensus sequence in FASTA format. Following the initial genome assembly, the `wtpoa-cns` command is employed to enhance the accuracy of the assembled contigs.

```bash
#[assembly]
wtpoa-cns -t 7 -i Anoste_raw.ctg.lay.gz -fo Anoste_raw
```
-----

### Quality check

Three distinct methods were employed for quality assessment, which are described in the following sections.

#### N50

To assess assembly contiguity, we calculated the *N50* metric, which represents the minimum contig length required to cover 50% of the assembly when considering all contigs in descending order of size.

```bash
#[assembly]
assembly-stats Anoste_raw.fasta > Anoste_raw.stats
```

#### Busco

To evaluate the gene content quality, we used *BUSCO*, which compares the assembly against a pre-compiled dataset of genes expected to be present in the studied organism (in this case `$BUSCO/culicidae_odb12`). Busco was run in nucleotide version.

```bash
#[sequence]
export NUMEXPR_MAX_THREADS= 80
busco -m geno -l $BUSCO/culicidae_odb12 -c 6 -o Anoste_raw.busco -i Anoste_raw.fasta
```
> N.B. Since BUSCO is not optimized for single-line FASTA files, it is essential to ensure that the input is in multi-line format.

#### Spectra-cn (KAT)

We used *Spectra-cn* method to generate a plot comparing k-mer frequencies in the original reads against those in the assembled genome, to estimate coverage.

```bash
#[kat]
kat comp -t 8 -o Anoste_pol 'SRR11672503_1_paired.fastq SRR11672503_2_paired.fastq' Anoste_pol.fasta
```

If the result of KAT is similar to that of GenomeScope, then this is already a first indication that the process is going well.

-----
